chore: update explanation for modes in Timescale Console. (#3474)
timescale/docs: getting-started/run-queries-from-console.md

---
title: Run your queries from Timescale Console

> excerpt: Use data mode or SQL editor to run SQL queries, create charts and dashboards, and collaborate with teammates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Use the data mode or SQL editor to run SQL queries, create charts and dashboards, and collaborate with teammates.
```

# Run your queries from Timescale Console

As Timescale Cloud is based on PostgreSQL, you can use lots of [different tools][integrations] to 
connect to your service and interact with your data. 

In Timescale Console you can use the following ways to run SQL queries against your database:

- [Data mode][run-popsql]: a rich experience powered by PopSQL. You can write queries with 
  autocomplete, save them in folders, share them, create charts/dashboards, and much more.

> - [SQL editor][run-sqleditor]: a simple UI in ops mode that you use to run ad-hoc ephemeral 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [SQL editor][run-sqleditor]: a simple UI in the ops mode that you use to run ad-hoc ephemeral 
```

> - [SQL editor][run-sqleditor]: a simple UI in the ops mode that you use to run ad-hoc ephemeral 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [SQL editor in Ops mode][run-sqleditor]: a simple SQL editor in Ops mode that lets you run ad-hoc ephemeral 
```

  queries. This is useful for quick one-off tasks like creating an index on a small table or 

>   inspecting pg_stat_statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  inspecting `pg_stat_statements`.
```

> If you prefer the command line to ops mode SQL editors in Timescale Console, use [psql][install-psql].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer the command line to the ops mode SQL editor in Timescale Console, use [psql][install-psql].
```

## Data mode

> You use data mode in Timescale Console to write queries, visualize data, and share your results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use the data mode in Timescale Console to write queries, visualize data, and share your results. 
```

   cursors.
- **[Schema browser](https://docs.popsql.com/docs/schema)**: understand the structure of your database and see usage data on tables and columns.
- **Autocomplete**: get suggestions as you type your queries.
- **[Version history](https://docs.popsql.com/docs/version-history)**: access previous versions of a query from the built-in revision history, or connect to a 
  git repo.
- **[Charts](https://docs.popsql.com/docs/creating-charts)**: visualize data from inside the UI rather than switch to Sheets or Excel.
- **[Schedules](https://docs.popsql.com/docs/scheduled-queries)**: automatically refresh queries and dashboards to create push alerts.
- **[Query variables](https://docs.popsql.com/docs/query-variables)**: use Liquid to parameterize your queries or use `if` statements.
- **Cross platform**:  works from [Timescale Console][portal-data-mode] or download the 
  [desktop](https://popsql.com/download) app for macOS, Windows, and Linux.
- **Easy connection**: to Timescale Cloud, PostgreSQL, Redshift, Snowflake, BigQuery, MySQL, SQL Server, [and more](https://popsql.com/connections).

> ### Connect to your Timescale Cloud service in data mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect to your Timescale Cloud service in the data mode
```

1. **Connect to your service**

>    1. In [data mode][portal-data-mode] in Timescale Console, select a service and enter your password, then click `Connect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. In the [data mode][portal-data-mode] in Timescale Console, select a service and enter your password, then click **Connect**.
```

Quick recap. You:
- Manage your services in the [ops mode in Timescale Console][portal-ops-mode]

> - Manage your data in [data mode in Timescale Console][portal-data-mode]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manage your data in the [data mode in Timescale Console][portal-data-mode]
```

- Store configuration and security information in your config file.

</Procedure>

> Now you have used data mode in Timescale Console, see how to easily do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have used the data mode in Timescale Console, see how to easily do the following:
```

  - When you configure the connection in PopSQL, under `Advanced Options`, enable `Connect over SSH`
- Add PopSQL's static IPs (`23.20.131.72, 54.211.234.135`) to your allowlist

> #### What happens if another member of my Timescale project data mode?

Reviewer: enter/uses the data mode?

The number of data mode seats you are allocated depends on your
[Pricing Plan][pricing-plan-features].

> #### Will using data mode affect the performance of my Timescale Cloud service?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Will using the data mode affect the performance of my Timescale Cloud service?
```

If you'd like to prevent write operations such as insert or update. Instead 
of using the `tsdbadmin` superuser, create a read-only user for your service and

> use that in data mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use that in the data mode.
```

To enable or disable SQL editor in your service, click `Operations` > `Service management`, then
update the setting for SQL editor.

> ### Run queries from ops mode in Timescale Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run queries from the ops mode in Timescale Console
```

<Procedure>

To use SQL editor with Timescale:

1.  **Open SQL editor from Timescale Console**

>     In [Ops mode][portal-ops-mode] in Timescale Console, select a service, then click `SQL editor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the [ops mode][portal-ops-mode] in Timescale Console, select a service, then click **SQL editor**.
```

## Cloud SQL editor licenses

> * **SQL editor in ops mode**: free for anyone with a [Timescale Cloud account][create-cloud-account].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **SQL editor in the ops mode**: free for anyone with a [Timescale Cloud account][create-cloud-account].
```
